I think I was 15 and I was sitting in my
classroom on the computer it was one of
the first laptops that I ever stopped
all I came by an online video it was a
dude ripping up a mountain in Japan in
the toyota corolla ae86 his name was
katsuhito ueo I was hooked and drifting
right there and then and ten years later
I was battling that guy in Long Beach in
California my name is Frederick gospel
and I drift
drifting is all about control it's it's
controlling a car that's essentially out
of control you you want to pour into it
as much angle as possible you want to go
as quick as possible as much smoke as
possible and it's it's a show so a lot
of people say that there's a lot of egos
in racing and I guess that's true
because in order to compete and in order
to win you have to have a very strong
drive but I think drifting has a little
bit more of a friendly vibe going on
because it's it's a judge sport it's
kind of the action sport of racing
because people express themselves that
are their competition cars and through
their drifting and I think it's
basically a huge family and I guess it's
it's in the it's in the name
we just rift around and people just
accommodate us and we would accommodate
any drifter that comes here - I'm from
ski Norway a small town 20 minutes
outside of Oslo so we get a lot of snow
here we have some mountain passes some
frozen lakes and you know it's it's cold
it's dark and not really a whole lot of
things to do
aside of driving cars and that's what we
do we rent on the cars we take him out
we go to frozen lays we need up we
cruise you know whenever people get to
to spend some quality time together they
kind of forget about the harsh winters
out here on ice your car is pretty loose
around the center but the more G's you
pull and the wider you go the more bite
you get so it's a it's an amazing
feeling of never going wrong we can
flick it in as hard as you want and most
of the time you can pull out of it any
rear-wheel drive basic car can be a good
dress card so the first thing you want
to accommodate is the steering handle so
you need to build much more steering
angle than what stock that that's that's
a first
you also need a limited
differential and some proper footwork
some proper suspension and that's really
it for a basic drift car right now I
draw a 1977 toyota cressida the MX 32
chassis I saw the ad for the Cressida
which had one previous owner and I do
one year old lady and I figure while I
just have to have this car the body line
takes beautiful it's very easy to modify
but I'm not really a mechanic I usually
break cars and I get people to help me
fix them driving an ice and snow
compared to especially dry tarmac is
where the delicate have to be very
careful you can sort of you have to hold
back a bit more it can't be a sequester
you have to really feel the car and be
smooth and be sensitive I guess to all
the inputs you get from the car and we
them real really quickly
I love drifting because it allows me to
really take control of the car push the
limits and even go beyond the limits of
what should be physically possible to do
with the car
there's something about cars it's an
expression of your yourself I mean a guy
like me I would drive a Toyota gt86 cuz
that's me it's a it's a lightweight
sports car that's nimble but it's still
slow you know so it's nothing extreme I
guess like me whereas a different guy
would drive something that suits him
better you know a lot of my buddies from
you know different Nissan's there's a
lot of BMW guys and they're kind of more
posh there's something about cars
they're such a big part of our lives
that they automatically become they
become our clothes really the life I
live today I'm getting to raise and
drive at the tracks that I only dreamt
of before just who's that I'm a product
of my friends and family back here
I grew up driving on these roads winter
summer and to this day you see some of
the curbs and along the roads here are
still painted red and white which we did
when you know when my buddies and I are
kids it's just it's just amazing to get
back out on home turf with my buddies
and spend some quality time